So now, what have we changed?
Well, we're still not running updateDOM
on a loop anymore with setInterval.
Now we're only running
updateDOM when data changes.
How do we do that?
When our data changes and
we want to update the value of name to Li,
look inside our handle.
We are going to run a function
we created called updateData.
This is a more generic function
now than it was before,
to which we can pass name as
the key that is gonna go and
update the key name in our data object.
And then, it's gonna assign to that
the value of Li in our data object.
You can see it's doing that inside of
updateData where it's saying gotoData.
Use the square bracket notation to
access the label which has been
passed in as a string name and
set names value to e.target.value,
which was based on the getter,
Li, in our DOM element, and
then put Li into our JavaScript store.
And then, run updateDom.
Note that now we have data.name
in our creating vDOM.
data.name is how we get the empty string,
and then later Li to be populated in vDOM.
This code updateData is
code that we hook into.
It is code that we hook into to handle
state, to handle data persisting
in our application that ensures
that when data does change,
we are going to rerun our updateDOM
function behind the scenes and
ensure that it flows
through to update our page.
We can hook into this functionality
that enables us to save and
persist state, and
when that state changes,
is updated, will automatically
[SOUND] run the updateDOM
function that passes all of
that through to the view.
We can hook into that.
That's all hook means.
Hook into that functionality to give us
access to persistent state that, when
changed, well, that's just data in memory,
that when changed, updates our view.
That is known as a state hook.
It's very profound, people.
Okay, so let's just adjust this a bit for
what we did here.
So now let's say we had not
named directly declared, but
we had instead an object of data
that is going to be our state store,
our store of data in our app,
or at least related to this
particular bit of our app,
a bit of our content on our page.
And it has name is an empty string.
As before, we know the first time we
ran updateDOM, we would've gone in and
evaluated here data.name
to be that empty string.
And then here, in vDOM position 1
we would've evaluated hello and
then data.name,
which will therefore have evaluated.
Do you remember we had empty string and
then hello empty string here on our
first path, so to speak, of updateDOM?
Yep, and then, when the user took action
and typed Li, and Li showed up on this,
the handle function would, instead of
assigning name directly, would have.
And actually probably it's quite good that
we've got a bit of a space inside of here,
because we may be even able to show it,
we would have run.
So e would still be our
object describing the event.
Alexa, can you help me out here?
Do you mind?
What would we be running now
instead of directly updating name?
What would be rerunning
in inside of handle?
>> Yes, we're gonna invoke updateData.
>> Yeah, and by the way, just to be clear,
we're just going back through our code and
making the tweaks with this approach.
Yeah, updateData.
>> And we're gonna pass in the string
name as our first argument.
>> Perfect.
>> And then, as our second argument,
the value on the event target,
which is gonna get the value
that's stored on that linked-
>> First object,
we have first DOM element
we created earlier.
>> Yeah, which was-
>> Which in this example was Li.
>> Li, exactly and so I guess I could show
that with my green, right, initially.
That was what came out of
here from values call.
So e.target.value would have evaluated to
Li, and then that is what's passed in.
Technically, that would actually have
evaluated to a JavaScript string there,
so we'll do it in white to show
it's come into JavaScript now.
And there it is, Li, and
that's gonna create a new what, Alexa?
>> Execution context.
>> Execution context, exactly.
Into it we go, so
we're updating our data here.
We created a function that looks like all
it's doing is updating our data in memory.
But actually, it's low-key going
to rerun updateDOM, fantastic.
As long as we restrict our developers,
our engineering team to never update data
directly, we probably close over it,
provide closure to lock it down,
so it can't be accessed.
But that gets tricky in terms
of the actual implementation,
although not beyond.
We are going to give the impression
of just updating data.
But really, we are also going to run our,
not every 50 milliseconds now, but
whenever needed on demand, but
secretly, our updateDom function.
But let's go into updateData, and what
are our parameter argument combos here?
>> Label, which is going to be name.
>> Perfect.
>> String name.
>> String name, yeah, this isn't
always easy here, name, exactly.
>> And then value,
which is gonna be the string Li.
>> Perfect, string Li.
And then, we're doing data.
Well, tell me what's happening here.
>> Yeah, so we look at our data global
variable, and it's an object, and using
bracket notation, we are gonna pass in the
string name and the name property there.
>> Perfect, beautiful, and assign it to?
>> The string Li.
>> Beautiful, so we're back where we were.
We then are going to run
what crucial function?
>> updateDOM.
Now, at this point,
it's not running every 50 milliseconds.
It's actually going to run inside of,
yeah, exactly, exactly.
Right, exactly, inside of updateData.
It's running inside of updateData
after that little semicolon,
updateDOM is running right there.
And then creating the new virtual DOM,
it's using data.name to
populate our vDOM through
the createVDOM call with data.name,
which is what, Alexa?
>> Li.
>> Li, and then, hello?
>> Exactly, hello Li.
And so we end up where we were before,
but now without running our
updateDom function 60 times a second,
but with no cost, no loss.
We're still updating
whenever the data changes.
We're still automatically propagating
that through to the view,
based on the data change, and
based on our description.
Well, not even based on the data change,
based on the data and based on our
description of what the view should look
like in our createVDOM function call,
which creates our data-specific
virtual DOM array, or
visual DOM array in JavaScript.
And if the data does change,
we're doing that all over again, but
only if the data changes.
But we don't need to then think, make
sure I go and actually update the data.
I just get to do it automatically by
hooking into this updateData function.
So we can make our updateName
function adn updateData function and
have it work for
any piece of data in our app.
We just hook into it.
So they call it a hook.
>> [LAUGH]
>> [LAUGH] That sounds very, okay.
We can alternatively switch to
running requestAnimationFrame,
rather than updateDOM directly on
data change, so it never prioritizes
our animations, truly optimized with
respect to other priorities now.
Yeah, so that would be that we
could have updateDOM at the end
of doing its work run itself again.
But wrap the call to updateDOM
inside a requestAnimationFrame,
which will then trigger updateDOM to run,
but
delay it to run at the back of the
callback queue, such that anything else
it needs to run in between,
it could be rendering, it could be calls.
But that's still,
therefore, gonna be creating our virtual
DOM x number of times per second.
Still inefficient, but at least it's
not blocking other things executing.
It will only do so as long as there
is nothing else on the call stack or
callback queue, no scroll events,
nothing else that's gonna cause
a user to see a block based on
running updateDOM too many times.
Okay, let's have thumbs on this code.
Okay, people are clear.
When Ian's got a frown,
I'm nervous to see, but yeah, please.
Go ahead, Justice, please.
>> So we got the function handle, and
then it's calling the updateData function.
Are we separating that, creating a new
function updateData just because it's
doing its own little job there-
>> Yeah, and actually, really,
I wanna make that really generic.
It's not really generic enough here,
is it, right?
I don't think because, actually
maybe it's relatively more generic.
Actually, how this is
implemented in practice is,
when you even create the data
associated with this displayed content,
you're actually, well, not in practice,
one way you could do it.
So yes, we are splitting that out there.
Sorry to interrupt, Justice.
Do you wanna continue with it?
>> I was just asking, more or less,
are you splitting it out just because
it's doing its own specific job?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay,
>> But notice that we could then use that
updateData function for
a whole slew of data in our app.
So we could then use it more generally.
And that's where the notion
of it being a hook.
It's some code written that we can
hook into that performs a task that
changes the behavior, in this case,
of our handle, and, I guess,
of our UI component,
the creation of our view and
the relationship back to it,
which the handle function is part of.
In practice,
one other way we could implement this is,
right now we are creating
our data in global.
We may want to create that data,
and when it's created,
we can actually have the creation
process be storing that data,
not directly, as we're doing here.
Data is an object with name empty string,
but actually do the assignment,
do the saving of that data
through a function call, as well,
whose output could be
the updater function.
Such that, later on, when we want
to go ahead and update that data,
we would use the associated
updater function and
know that it will be
targeting exactly that data.
And that is exactly how it's done in a
certain popular framework known as React.
John, please.
>> I had a question.
Is there a specific reason that you
are using data rather than closure,
or you can do the closure?
I'm not sure.
>> As opposed to you doing any closure
here, just because visually, it's just.
So in terms of diagramming, I'm trying to,
closure is my favorite concept
in JavaScript, probably.
I mean, I do think it is very, very cool.
It's so cool, the idea that, if you've
got functions running at a later time,
when a user does an action or
whatever, it's being called back that,
appropriately, all the data you
could imagine would be there is
right there in its backpack, right, and
it's closed over variable environment.
I think that's really amazing.
However, we're not here for that today,
and therefore, minimizing complexity,
I've done everything in global to remove
having to do anything that would work,
but via one of the most,
I think, profound, but
also can be tricky to add
concepts out of closure.
So we are holding off it
doing everything in global.
We wouldn't in practice.
Hooray, we managed to stop running
our updateDOM 60 times a second.
Although, to be fair,
in our final example,
we're gonna go back to it just because,
I don't know, it's easier to work with.
But hooray, we are now going to wrestle
with the fact that, yes, I get to create
a full jobs representation in a one-to-one
description in my createVDOM function.
Good for me.
No working out upon different changes from
the user exactly what to update here.
Just recreate the whole thing from my
one-to-one description in createVDOM,
data to view, one to one,
beautiful in one place.
Fine, however, that semi-visual coding,
the ability to then compose that and
move it around comes at a cost, right?
Now I'm simplistically then taking each
element and recreating them in full, just
as I do here with the virtual DOM, and
recreating them in full on the actual DOM.
But no need!
I have an archived history of the project.
Well, I could do, perhaps I could archive,
as it looks like I'm gonna sorta do here,
of the previous data to JS representation
of what's gonna be displayed.
I can compare the two of them and
figure out what actually changed.
And that is what we are going
to do in our final code, people.